---
title: 'Provisioning'
sidebar_position: 1
---

This document describes how provisioning of pipeline configuration files works
in Conduit. To see how a pipeline configuration file is structured check the
[specifications](/docs/pipeline-configuration-files/specifications).

## Conduit provisions pipelines at startup

Conduit provisions all pipeline configuration files found in the
[pipelines directory](#pipelines-directory) when it starts. After that it does
not monitor the configuration files for changes. If you want to apply changes to
one of the configurations you need to restart Conduit for the changes to take
effect.

## Pipelines Directory

When Conduit starts, it will search for all files ending with `.yml` or `.yaml`
in folder `./pipelines` and its sub-folders. It will parse the configuration
files and provision the pipelines defined in them.

If you want Conduit to search a different directory, or want to provision a
single file, you can specify the CLI flag `pipelines.path` and point to your
file or directory:

```shell
./conduit -pipelines.path /path/to/my-directory
```

If the directory does not exist, Conduit will fail with the error
`"pipelines.path" config value is invalid`.

## Errors are logged and ignored

Conduit will try to provision all pipelines regardless of the errors it may
encounter while going through the configuration files. Invalid configuration
files will be ignored (e.g. files that miss a mandatory field or have an invalid
configuration value) and won't impact the provisioning of valid configuration
files. Conduit will log a warning for every error it encounters during this
process.

## Pipelines need unique IDs

You need to be careful when choosing IDs for your pipelines, connectors and
processors. Each pipeline needs to get a unique pipeline ID, otherwise all
pipelines with the same ID will be ignored. If a pipeline contains connectors or
processors with the same ID, they will be ignored as well.

**_Note_**: Connector IDs and processor IDs will be prefixed with the parent ID.
In case of a connector this means the pipeline ID will be attached as a prefix
to the connector ID (e.g. `pipelineID:connectorID`). Similarly, a pipeline
processor's ID will be prefixed with the pipeline ID (e.g.
`pipelineID:processorID`) and a connector processor's ID will be prefixed with
the connector ID (e.g. `pipelineID:connectorID:processorID`). This ensures that
connector and processor IDs are globally unique as long as the pipeline ID is
unique.

## Environment variables

Conduit injects environment variables in pipeline configuration files. To
specify a value using an environment variable, wrap the name of the variable in
`${}` (e.g. `${MY_ENV_VAR}`). Any value in the configuration file can be injected
using an environment variable.

This can be useful for injecting secrets into a pipeline without specifying it
explicitly in the pipeline configuration file. You need to make sure that the
environment variable is set when running Conduit.

## Pipelines Immutability

Pipelines provisioned by configuration files are **immutable**, they can not be
changed using the API. Any updates on a provisioned pipeline have to be done
through the configuration file.

You can still stop or start the pipeline through the UI or API.

## Updating a provisioned pipeline

Pipelines provisioned by configuration files can only be updated through
configuration files. Conduit has to be restarted for the changes to take effect.

Generally, updates will preserve the state of the pipeline. This means that even
after an update Conduit will resume the processing at the last record that was
successfully processed. However, updates of some fields will cause the state to
be lost, as it can't be guaranteed that the state is still applicable to the new
configuration. In that case the pipeline will start processing records from the
beginning, as if it's running for the first time.

Here is a full list of fields that will cause the connector to start from the
beginning if they are updated:

- [`pipeline.id`](/docs/pipeline-configuration-files/specifications#id) - The
  entire pipeline will be recreated and all source connectors will start from
  the beginning.
- [`connector.id`](/docs/pipeline-configuration-files/specifications#id-1) - The
  updated connector will start from the beginning (only source connectors).
- [`connector.type`](/docs/pipeline-configuration-files/specifications#type) -
  The updated connector will start from the beginning (only source connectors).
- [`connector.plugin`](/docs/pipeline-configuration-files/specifications#plugin-1)
  - The updated connector will start from the beginning (only source connectors).

## Deleting a provisioned pipeline

Pipelines provisioned by configuration files can be deleted by removing them
from the configuration file or deleting the file entirely. Next time Conduit
starts it will delete the pipeline.
